***English**** ****Language**** ****Arts**** ****I***

***Course**** ****Overview**** ****for**** ****ELA**** ****I***

The Washington Leadership Academy English Language Arts Course is a
multidimensional approach to ELA that provides students with both
leveled and grade-level appropriate reading with a mixture of fiction
and nonfiction reading. The curriculum is intended to develop the core
proficiencies laid out in the Common Core ELA State Standards. The
school has worked in partnership with Odell Education (OE)
(odelleducation.org) to adapt the 9th-grade Odell ELA curriculum to an
internally developed Canon for WLA. The Canon is comprised of text lists
for each interim that are coordinated to the topic studies being done
during that interim (see topic studies section in the school curriculum
overview). See a sample text set for the Evidence Based Argumentation
Module
[*here*](http://odelleducation.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/Argumentation-Text-Sets-G9.pdf).

The Odell curriculum model seeks to help students gain the capacity to
read texts closely for textual details; find, understand, and make
evidence-based claims; use texts to deepen understanding through
research; and use texts to generate evidence-based arguments.
Additionally the curriculum features a focus on creativity,
collaboration, investigation, pairing complex texts with multimedia, and
deep vocabulary development. See below for an overview of OE’s Design.

* *

***Odell**** ****Education**** ****Overview**** ****of****
****Design**** ****Features***

***Common**** ****Core**** ****Alignment**** ***Each module focuses
instruction and assessment on developing core proficiencies aligned with
a limited set of targeted standards. Additionally, the activities of
each module integrate many other standards to support student learning.
This two-tiered alignment design builds a variety of literacy skills in
an integrated way, while developing core proficiencies through focused
lesson sequences and assessment. The design also helps teachers capture
precise evidence of student proficiency as they monitor student progress
and integrate the series into a yearlong instructional plan.

* *

***Creativity**** ***Module activities have been built to encourage
creativity and leadership development with the goal of empowering
students with awareness and responsibility of their own learning. The
modules are strongly focused on deep analysis of texts in ways that
encourage the expression and defense of personal thinking. Approaches to
literacy focus on independent questioning of texts, making one’s own
claims about texts and defending them with evidence, developing inquiry
questions and employing independent research to deepen understanding,
and constructing personal logical arguments to explain one’s
perspective.

* *

***Collaboration**** ****and**** ****Independence**** ***Following the
design and intent of the Common Core, the module series incorporates
sustained and structured collaborative activities to build those
essential collaborative skills and habits. Equally important to literacy
is the ability to handle tasks independently. As such, the sequences of
activities and materials in the modules lead students progressively to
successful independent performance.

* *

***Engaging**** ****in**** ****Complex**** ****Texts**** ***The series
is intentionally crafted around complex texts from a range of contexts
so that students have opportunities to engage with significant ideas
from a diversity of topics and perspectives, and analyze, evaluate, and
employ textual evidence across genres. The open source and freely
accessible texts also provide teachers with a rich repository of common
core-aligned reading material, most of which have been formatted to
include vocabulary glossing and line and paragraph numbers.

***Multimedia**** ****and**** ****Technology**** ***Developing literacy
with multimedia and technology are critical to the curriculum. Students
develop analytic reading and research skills in various media. To
support and encourage this development, the module materials themselves
have been designed to be used electronically by teachers and students in
their analysis, writing and collaboration.

***Support**** ****for**** ****All**** ****Learners**** ***The sequence
of instruction has been designed to engage all students in instruction
aligned to the CCSS. The text choices in this series combined with a
purposeful sequence of instruction in each module work together to bring
ALL students, including ELL students and those reading below grade
level, into productive struggle with texts, collaborative conversation,
and evidence-based writing. Activities, pedagogical notes, worksheets,
and handouts have been designed to aid the learning of diverse students.

***Vocabulary**** ****Development**** ***Instruction is designed to give
students conceptual facility with key literacy concepts and text-based
expansion of vocabulary building skills. Module texts also include
modifiable glossaries of infrequent vocabulary and concepts to support
all readers including ELL and those reading below grade-level.

***Instructional**** ****Model**** ****and**** ****Implementation****
****Strategies**** ****for**** ****ELA***

WLAs English Class will meet every day for ninety minutes. Students will
rotate on a block schedule where they will fully engage in the OE
curriculum using the text lists associated with that interim’s topic
study. The texts used will range within the appropriate lexile-level for
9th-grade students. On the following day students will go to the
Literacy Studio class. The Literacy studio is a class where students
will complete a close reading of a leveled text in a personally curated
set of texts, based on a student’s reading level. The focus of the
reading is to ensure students gain capacity in argumentative and
claims-based writing and reading (see CERCA below). Each text is
associated with the interim topic study. Students will also conduct a
longer text study (full book) in small groups using a digitally hosted
text (see DAIR). The following strategies will be used to implement the
WLA model:

**Curated Close Reading Playlists:** During an interim students will
engage in reading texts that apply to the interim topic but are curated
to varying lexile levels. These texts will be set into a playlist of
readings and associated assignments that students will complete at their
own pace.

**Curated Book Playlists: **Students will study a list of texts
prescribed throughout the year using a digital platform (see DAIR
below), these texts will be self-paced and used metametrics questioning
models to assess students comprehension of syntax, fluency, and
vocabulary.

**Close Reading: **Students will regularly engage in complex texts that
require them to reread and analyze texts to unlock meaning, inference,
syntactical structure, claims, reasoning, evidence, and audience. Close
reads are instrumental to the daily reading experiences of students
across both ELA courses (Odell and the Literacy studio).

**Pre-complex Text Studies: **Text studies for each interim include a
series of pre-complex texts that are carefully sequenced from lower to
higher lexile levels. Students will use lower level texts to gain core
knowledge around a topic then take on texts that gradually grow in
complexity.

**Non-Fiction Text and CERCAs: **A CERCA is a full-cycle examination of
a close read where students investigate the (C)laim, (E)vidence,
(R)easoning for (C)laims, presented (C)ounterclaims, and the (A)udience
of a complex text. The instructional format is hosted using a digital
platform from ThinkCERCA (thinkcerca.com). Students practice
argumentative writing around a close read.

**Digitally Accountable Independent Reading (DAIR):** During the
Literacy Studio time students will read leveled books associated with
the interim topic study. The book will be hosted on digital platform
such as LightSail where students will be assessed for semantic, syntax,
fluency, and other comprehension items.

**Other Instructional Strategies: **

-   [*Harkness*](http://www.exeter.edu/admissions/109_1220.aspx)[*
    *](http://www.exeter.edu/admissions/109_1220.aspx)[*Model*](http://www.exeter.edu/admissions/109_1220.aspx)[*
    *](http://www.exeter.edu/admissions/109_1220.aspx)[*Seminars*](http://www.exeter.edu/admissions/109_1220.aspx)
-   Socratic Seminar/Autonomous Discussion Structures
-   [*Argument*](http://argumentcenterededucation.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/AnalyticComparisonsEvidence15.05.29.pdf?1f67a1)[*-*](http://argumentcenterededucation.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/AnalyticComparisonsEvidence15.05.29.pdf?1f67a1)[*centered*](http://argumentcenterededucation.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/AnalyticComparisonsEvidence15.05.29.pdf?1f67a1)[*
    *](http://argumentcenterededucation.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/AnalyticComparisonsEvidence15.05.29.pdf?1f67a1)[*Reading*](http://argumentcenterededucation.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/AnalyticComparisonsEvidence15.05.29.pdf?1f67a1)[*
    *](http://argumentcenterededucation.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/AnalyticComparisonsEvidence15.05.29.pdf?1f67a1)[*and*](http://argumentcenterededucation.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/AnalyticComparisonsEvidence15.05.29.pdf?1f67a1)[*
    *](http://argumentcenterededucation.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/AnalyticComparisonsEvidence15.05.29.pdf?1f67a1)[*Writing*](http://argumentcenterededucation.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/AnalyticComparisonsEvidence15.05.29.pdf?1f67a1)
-   [*Reading*](http://teachlikeachampion.com/blog/writing-reading-excerpt-reading-reconsidered/)[*/*](http://teachlikeachampion.com/blog/writing-reading-excerpt-reading-reconsidered/)[*Writing*](http://teachlikeachampion.com/blog/writing-reading-excerpt-reading-reconsidered/)[*
    *](http://teachlikeachampion.com/blog/writing-reading-excerpt-reading-reconsidered/)[*Cycles*](http://teachlikeachampion.com/blog/writing-reading-excerpt-reading-reconsidered/)
-   Guided Reading and Directed Reading
-   Collaborative Reading Groups

***Methods**** ****of**** ****Assessment**** ****for**** ****the****
****ELA**** ****Course***

Students will be assessed in a variety of methods throughout the ELA
course with assessments ranging in length, depth, and style. Assessments
in some cases will seek to emulate the PARCC assessment and in other
instances assess students’ abilities to apply their skills in other
environments. Below is a list of assessment types for the ELA course:

**Modular Assessments: **At the completion of a module students will
take a Modular assessment that assesses the literacy skills specific to
that module.

**Interim Assessments: **At the completion of every interim students
will take interim assessments. These assessments emulate PARCC-styled
assessments and assess all materials covered up to that point of the
course.

**Performance-based Assessments for PARCC Performance Level
Descriptors:** Students will be assessed on specific skills acquired
throughout the year on skills prescribed by the
[*PARCC*](http://www.parcconline.org/assessments/test-design/ela-literacy/ela-performance-level-descriptors)[*
*](http://www.parcconline.org/assessments/test-design/ela-literacy/ela-performance-level-descriptors)[*Performance*](http://www.parcconline.org/assessments/test-design/ela-literacy/ela-performance-level-descriptors)[*
*](http://www.parcconline.org/assessments/test-design/ela-literacy/ela-performance-level-descriptors)[*Level*](http://www.parcconline.org/assessments/test-design/ela-literacy/ela-performance-level-descriptors)[*
*](http://www.parcconline.org/assessments/test-design/ela-literacy/ela-performance-level-descriptors)[*Descriptors*](http://www.parcconline.org/assessments/test-design/ela-literacy/ela-performance-level-descriptors)[*
*](http://www.parcconline.org/assessments/test-design/ela-literacy/ela-performance-level-descriptors)[*for*](http://www.parcconline.org/assessments/test-design/ela-literacy/ela-performance-level-descriptors)[*
*](http://www.parcconline.org/assessments/test-design/ela-literacy/ela-performance-level-descriptors)[*ELA*](http://www.parcconline.org/assessments/test-design/ela-literacy/ela-performance-level-descriptors)
and detailed in the evidence table for each sub-claim. Assessments will
be given when each student has learned the concepts categorized within a
sub-claim and use a variety of texts to assess a student’s ability to
under literary structure, information, vocabulary of a text, and written
expression. Below is a sample sub-claim for the PARCC 9th-grade PLDs for
written expression:

**Project Artifacts and Exhibitions:** Throughout each interim students
will be asked to investigate a challenge or problem aligned to the
interim topic and complete a project that addresses the topic while also
integrating skills learned in each course. Each project will have a
course-specific artifact or exhibition that is assessed by the course
teacher.

***Module**** ****Descriptions***

***Modules**** ****Overview****:***

*** ***

***Module**** 1:*** Reading Closely For Textual Details

***Module**** 2:*** Making Evidence- Based Claims

***Module**** 3:*** Researching to Deepen Understanding

***Module**** 4:*** Building Evidence- Based Arguments

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* *

***Module**** ****Assessments***

*** ***

***A**** ****Common**** ****Timeframe**** ****for**** ****Modules****
****and**** ****Interim**** ****Assessments***** **Odell Education (OE)
recognizes the essential connections among teaching, learning, and
assessment. In addition to supporting educators with curriculum and
training, OE also provides design and technical assistance in the
creation of a range of assessments. OE will be partnering with
Washington Leadership Academy to pilot assessments that align with the
each module or modules if assess learning done in two different modules.

***Formative**** ****Assessments***** **OE has developed a
comprehensive, criteria-based assessment system used throughout the Core
Proficiencies modules. As students move through increasingly complex
skill sets, they use literacy skills handouts to provide useful
background information about the skill they are acquiring or refining,
graphic organizers (tools) to form and refine specific literacy skills,
and criteria checklists to guide and evaluate written work.

Formative assessments opportunities come from the use of graphic
organizers such as annotation tools, tools to make claims about texts,
tools to delineate arguments and checklists to participate effectively
in text-based discussions. Teachers and students use criteria-based
checklists to evaluate written works such as evaluative and comparative
essays, and culminating classroom discussions.

** **

***Summative**** ****Assessments***** **Washington Leadership Academy
will use shared assessments throughout the academic year. Each interim
session will end with an interim assessment that covers the standards
within each course’s scope and sequence. Students will takefour interim
assessments throughout they year. Interim assessments will be given
during the last week of each interim session.

***Standards**** ****Coverage***

** **

  --------------------- -------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  --------------------- -------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 ***Module**** \#1: ****Reading**** ****Closely**** ****for****
****Textual**** ****Details***

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ---------------- ------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ------------------------------
  ---------------- ------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ------------------------------

***Module**** 2: ****Making**** ****Evidence**** ****Based****
****Claims***

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ---------------- --------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ------------------------------
  ---------------- --------------------------------------------- ---------------------- ------------------------------

***Module**** \#3: ****Researching**** ****to**** ****Deepen****
****Understanding***

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ---------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- --------------------------------------------------
  ---------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------- --------------------------------------------------

***Module**** \#4: ****Building**** ****Evidence****- ****Based****
****Arguments***

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ------------------------------
  ------------------------------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- ------------------------------

*** ***

*** ***

*** ***


